Comment 1W: Discuss the uniqueness of crucial proteins to Plasmodium and their human homologs, addressing potential drug interactions.

Response: We have chosen two proteins, actin-1 and DHFR_TS, from the asexual and sexual stages, respectively, as the target proteins. Humans have several actin isoforms, including cytoplasmic actins (β-actin and γ-actin) and muscle-specific actins (α-cardiac, α-skeletal, and α-smooth muscle actins). These actins are highly conserved and play essential roles in cellular structure, motility, and signaling. However, Actin-1 in Plasmodium has uniqueness. The amino acid sequence of Plasmodium actin-1 shows significant differences from human actins. These variations can lead to differences in the structure and dynamics of the actin filaments. Plasmodium actin-1 has been found to have distinct polymerization properties. It forms shorter and less stable filaments compared to human actin. This affects how the parasite utilizes actin for its motility and invasion processes. We have checked the homologus binding cavities of Actine-1 in Plasmodium with human. We got some homologous cavities in humans but the fit value (cavity matching score) is not higher. We can check whether the generated small molecules are binding with human homologous cavities or not. We can generate many small molecules and check whether these molecules are binding with any other human cavities or not. We have found strong binding sites of these two proteins, and we have checked homologous cavities of human proteins. DHFR_TS has five strong binding sites. We find that 1st cavity doesn’t have any homologous cavities with human proteins, and other strong cavities have homologous cavities with human proteins. So, we can choose the 1st cavity of  DHFR_TS as an input in Targetdiff model, and we can generate drug molecules to avoid off-target bindings. 

Comment 1x: Are the chosen crucial proteins unique to Plasmodium or whether they are also present in humans? a. For example, the chosen actin-1 protein is a generic protein involved in making cytoskeletal filaments, motility, etc. How different is this protein from human actin protein? If it has a homologous protein(s) in humans, will the chosen drugs react with human homologs? b. Similarly, DHFR_TS for which 5 strong binding sites are present, should already have been explored as a target as it is involved in nucleotide synthesis by experimental biologists. Does the TargetDiff strategy predict / reproduce known inhibitors / compounds against DHFR_TS? Please report performance metrics (false positives, negatives, etc.) for overall target – molecule combinations.

Response: (a) Actin-1 has so many isomers in humans and we have discussed in previous point (1W) how this protein is different from human actin-1 proteins. 
(b) Dihydrofolate reductase-thymidylate synthase (DHFR-TS) is a bifunctional enzyme found in Plasmodium species but not in humans. In humans, these functions are carried out by two separate enzymes: dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) and thymidylate synthase (TS). I checked that the first binding site has been explored but I did not get any reference for other binding sites. We got a smiles string that has been generated and it’s a known compound (2nd smiles string from sexual stage in table 2.5). 

